male announcer:
IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTICE SYSTEM,
SEXUALLY BASED OFFENSES ARE
CONSIDERED ESPECIALLY HEINOUS.
IN NEW YORK CITY,
THE DEDICATED DETECTIVES
WHO INVESTIGATE
THESE VICIOUS FELONIES
ARE MEMBERS OF AN ELITE SQUAD
KNOWN AS
THE SPECIAL VICTIMS UNIT.
THESE ARE THEIR STORIES.
- OH, MY GOD!
I FEEL AMAZING!
LET'S DO MORE.
- WE DID ALL OF IT.
OHH.
- THEN DANCE FOR ME!
DO YOUR CABBAGE PATCH.
OHH!
[laughs]
- DON'T MAKE FUN OF ME.
- [laughs]
[baby talk] IS THE "WITTLE" BOY
GETTING "ANGWRY"?
- STOP IT.
I MEAN IT.
- IS THE "WITTLE" BOY
GONNA TEACH ME A LESSON?
[both laughing]
UNH!
- WHOO!
YOU GOT TO RUN FASTER.
YOU GOT TO RUN FASTER THAN THAT!
[both laughing]
- IS "WITTLE" JIMMY
GETTING TIRED "ALWEADY"?
- AVA, SHUT UP.
- [scoffs]
- PETECHIAE--
IT MEANS SHE DROWNED.
THAT'S HARD TO DO
IN A FOOT OF WATER.
- NOT IF SOMEBODY KNOCKS YOU OUT
OR HOLDS YOU UNDER.
YOU GET A TIME OF DEATH?
- YEAH, CORNEAL CLOUDING
PUTS IT AROUND 4:00 A.M.
- SO I'M GUESSING
THAT THE FOUNTAIN WASHED AWAY
ANY EVIDENCE?
- YEAH, ON THE OUTSIDE,
BUT I GOT BLOOD AND SEMEN
IN HER HOOCHIE-HOO.
UH, I'M SORRY.
I SOMETIMES FORGET
THAT THEY'RE PEOPLE.
- YOU GET ANYTHING
FROM SKINNY AND DIPPER?
- YEAH, HE CAN'T STOP
STARING AT HER ASS,
AND SHE CAN'T WAIT
TO NEVER SEE HIM AGAIN.
- OKAY, PATROL STILL CAN'T FIND
HER CLOTHES OR HER PURSE.
- DETECTIVES?
THIS IS NOT
A FASHION STATEMENT.
- [sighs] SO OUR PERP
CUT OFF A HUNK OF HER HAIR
AS A KEEPSAKE.
- SO HE CAN RELIEVE
EVERY SICK MOMENT.
- TILL HE FINDS
HIS NEXT VICTIM.
- CAPTAIN SAY
HOW LONG WE'D BE HERE?
- NAH.
HE'S AT THE OLD PRECINCT,
TRYING TO CLEAN IT UP.
- [chuckles]
YOU HOPE THEY CONDEMN IT.
- HELL, YEAH,
AFTER A FLOOD LIKE THAT.
I DON'T EVEN WANT TO KNOW
WHERE THAT WATER'S BEEN.
- NOT TO MENTION THIS PLACE
IS CLOSER TO YOUR HOUSE.
- YEAH?
SOMETHING WRONG WITH THAT?
- MORE SPACE, BETTER LIGHT--
NOT TOO SHABBY.
- DID A DATABASE SEARCH
ON YOUR HAIR-CUTTING M.O.
- ANYTHING ON THE, UH,
CENTRAL PARK BARBER?
- PATROL COLLARED THIS CREEP.
HE HANGS OUT IN THE PARK.
SNUCK UP ON A WOMAN
AND CUT HER HAIR.
LOCALS CALL HIM "SASSOON."
- I COULD USE A TRIM.
I KNOW.
BUT AT LEAST
I GOT MY HAIR DONE.
YEAH, IT LOOKS AMAZING.
I WENT TO THIS NEW PLACE.
AND IT'S SO SHINY AND SILKY.
I LOOK LIKE
A MILLION DOLLARS.
YEAH, IT'S GREAT.
I KNOW.
I KNOW, MA, BUT MEN
DON'T GROW ON TREES.
- HEY!
NICE TRY, SASSOON.
- OW!
THAT'S NOT MY NAME!
- REALLY?
YOU'RE KIDDING ME.
YOU'RE FAMOUS AROUND HERE.
- REALLY?
WOW.
- OH.
[handcuffs clicking]
- WE WANT TO HEAR
ALL ABOUT YOUR LATEST CUT.
- THAT GIRL IN THE FOUNTAIN
WAS ALREADY DEAD
WHEN I CUT HER HAIR.
- YEAH, BUT NOT
WHEN YOU RAPED HER.
YOU'RE GOING DOWN
FOR THAT AND MURDER.
- NO, NO.
I GOT A LULLABY.
- YOU WANT TO SING US
A FEW BARS?
- I WAS AT BANANA-TRAMA
ALL NIGHT.
- THAT'S AN ALIBI,
NOT A LULLABY, YOU MORON.
- BANANA-TRAMA'S THAT
TRANSVESTITE CLUB ON COLUMBUS.
- I GOT A LAP DANCE
FROM MISS TERRY.
- I'LL LET YOU CHECK
HIS "LULLABY"
FROM BANANA-TRAMA.
- IT IS WHAT I LIVE FOR.
- YOU GONNA USE YOUR DESK?
- WELL, YOU GO
TO THE SAME PLACE FOR YEARS...
- [chuckles]
YEAH.
ACTUALLY, I DROVE TO
THE OLD PRECINCT THIS MORNING.
- ANY HITS
ON OUR JANE DOE'S PRINTS?
- NOPE.
[electricity shorts out]
AND IT DOESN'T HELP
THAT THAT KEEPS HAPPENING.
- [sighs] SORRY.
I'LL GET IT FIXED IN A MINUTE.
- THE MEDIA ROOM'S
UP AND RUNNING.
- [sighs]
OH, COME ON.
WHO PUT THAT HERE?
COME ON, WHO?
ALL GOES TO HELL
WHEN CRAGEN'S GONE, HUH?
- BAD NEWS.
NIGHT MANAGER OF BANANA-TRAMA
CONFIRMS SASSOON'S "LULLABY."
HE'S A REGULAR.
HE WAS BOOTED OUT OF THERE
FOR GIVING MISS TERRY
AN UNWANTED BOB.
- WHAT TIME?
- 4:30.
AFTER OUR JANE DOE WAS DROWNED.
- SO WE'RE BACK TO NOTHING.
- SPEAK FOR YOURSELF.
MIKKA VON, YOUR NEW A.D.A.
- HEY.
STABLER, BENSON.
- I DON'T GET FIRST NAMES?
- WELL, WE GO THROUGH
A.D.A.s PRETTY FAST AROUND HERE.
WHAT DO YOU GOT?
- DNA FROM THE SEMEN
INSIDE YOUR VICTIM.
- YOU WORK FAST.
- WELL, IT SAYS HERE
THAT IT BELONGS TO A WOMAN--
MONICA WORLEY...
COLLARED FOR ASSAULTING A COP
AT THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
CONVENTION IN '04.
- YEAH, I GOT
AN SVU FUN FACT FOR YOU.
SEMEN ONLY COMES FROM GUYS.
- THERE WERE NO HITS
ON THE SAMPLE.
SO I ASKED THE LAB
TO RUN A PARTIAL MATCH.
- WHICH POINTS TO MONICA'S
BROTHER AS OUR PERP.
- WELL, YOU GUYS GOT IT EASY.
FAMILIAL DNA'S NOT LEGAL YET
IN ILLINOIS.
- IS THAT WHERE YOU'RE FROM?
- CHICAGO, BUT...
I'M READY TO TRADE MY BEARS
FOR THE GIANTS.
- JETS.
- OH, GOTCHA.
BY THE WAY,
IF YOU KNOW ANYONE
WHO WANTS TO BUY A SUN-DRENCHED
LOFT ON LAKE MICHIGAN,
THE SELLER'S MOTIVATED.
OH!
GIVE ME A JINGLE
AFTER YOU CHAT
WITH YOUR RAPIST'S SISTER.
- WE SURE THAT'S HER?
- YEAH, THE GALLERY OWNER
CONFIRMED IT.
AND...
THAT APPARENTLY IS ART.
- MONICA WORLEY!
HEY, WE NEED TO TALK.
- MONICA.
AH, YOU WANT TO PLAY THIS?
LET'S GO. HERE YOU GO.
- KEEP YOUR DAY JOB,
DETECTIVE,
'CAUSE YOU SUCK AT MINE.
- I SUCK? YOU SUCK
AT COOPERATING WITH THE POLICE.
- HOW YOU GONNA
HARASS ME THIS TIME?
- IT'S NOT ABOUT YOU.
IT'S ABOUT YOUR BROTHER.
- WHAT'D HE DO NOW?
- HE HAD SOME PROBLEMS
WITH A YOUNG LADY.
- DID HE HURT HER?
- YOU COULD SAY THAT.
- I KNEW ONE DAY
HE'D GO TOO FAR.
HE ALWAYS THOUGHT
HIS TRUST FUND
ENTITLED HIM TO PAW
ANY WOMAN HE WANTED.
- WHERE CAN WE FIND HIM?
- OWNS A BROWNSTONE
ON 75TH AND 5TH.
- THIS WOULDN'T BE SO BAD
IF IT WAS ME AND THAT LADY COP,
INSTEAD OF YOU.
- YOU WANT TO DO
TO MY PARTNER
WHAT YOU DID
TO THAT BLOND GIRL LAST NIGHT?
- [chuckles]
MY REPUTATION PRECEDES ME.
- YEAH.
- WHAT'D SHE SAY?
- AH, SHE'S NOT DOING
TOO MUCH TALKING.
YEAH, BEING RAPED AND MURDERED
WILL DO THAT TO YOU.
- OKAY, ME AND BLONDIE
HAD SEX,
BUT I SURE AS HELL
DIDN'T RAPE AND KILL HER.
- BLONDIE?
WHAT'S HER REAL NAME?
- SHE NEVER SAID.
SHE JUST CAME UP TO ME
NEAR THE RESERVOIR
AND SAID
SHE WAS HOT AND WET.
- [clears throat]
A STRANGER IN THE PARK
THROWS HERSELF AT YOU
BECAUSE WHY--
YOU'RE SO CHARISMATIC?
- LOOK, THE SEX
WAS CONSENSUAL, OKAY?
SHE EVEN TOOK OUT A TAMPON
BEFORE WE DID IT.
- OKAY.
WHERE'S THE TAMPON?
- KILLER ATE IT...
MY DACHSHUND.
I HAD TO TAKE HIM
TO THE VET.
- YOUR DOG
ATE YOUR HOMEWORK?
YOU JUST GOT AN "F"
FOR YOUR ALIBI.
- WAIT.
WAI--WAI--WAIT.
I TOOK VIDEO, OKAY?
I HAVE A FOLLOWING.
- A FOLLOWING?
- YEAH, ON SEXPROWL.
IT'S THE YOUTUBE OF SEX.
- I'M HOT.
SO...WET.
I WANT IT...
NOW.
- WAS I LYING?
WAIT, HERE'S ME.
- KID YOU NOT, WHIT-FANS.
I'M OUT WALKING
MY DOG, KILLER,
AND HOTTIE HERE
JUST WALKS UP TO ME.
WHAT'S A GUY TO DO?
- I WANT IT.
HURRY UP!
I WANT IT...
NOW!
- I'VE SEEN ENOUGH.
WE'LL NEVER GET RAPE
OFF THIS VIDEO.
- FINALLY,
SOMEONE TALKING SENSE.
- STILL HAVE MURDER.
- NOT ANYMORE.
EMERGENCY VET
SAID THIS JERK
WAS THERE TILL 6:00 A.M.,
WHEN KILLER FINALLY
COUGHED UP THE KOTEX.
- I TOLD YOU. I DIDN'T RAPE
OR KILL THIS BROAD.
NOW, CAN I GET OUT OF HERE?
- NOT FAST ENOUGH.
- I WOULD HAVE ENJOYED
THROWING HIS SORRY ASS IN JAIL.
MIKKA VON, YOUR NEW A.D.A.
- ODAFIN TUTUOLA.
- OH, A FIRST NAME--
I'M MAKING PROGRESS.
ODAFIN, SHE DROPPED HER PURSE
IN SOME BUSHES
NEAR THE RESERVOIR.
- NO PROBLEM.
I'M ON IT.
- I'M GONNA ERASE THIS CRAP
FROM OUR SCREENS.
- TRY THE "Q."
- I TRIED THAT.
- WET PAINT
PLUS NO CLEAN CLOTHES
EQUALS UNIFORMS--
SIMPLE MATH.
IF ONLY THE COMPUTERS
WERE THAT SIMPLE, HUH?
- EXCUSE ME.
MISSING PERSONS SENT ME HERE.
IS THIS YOUR CASE?
- IT IS.
AND YOU ARE...?
- YOU SON OF A BITCH.
- OHH!
- TAKE IT EASY!
- HEY, CUT IT OUT!
- YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO PROTECT US!
- RELAX.
- SOMEBODY EMAILED
THAT GARBAGE TO ME.
WHY DIDN'T YOU STOP IT?
- WHO ARE YOU?
- [wheezing]
I'M GREG ELDING.
THAT WOMAN IS MY WIFE.
- YES, THAT'S...
LINDSAY.
- DO YOU REMEMBER
WHERE YOUR WIFE WAS YESTERDAY,
MR. ELDING?
- AT THE OFFICE, I GUESS.
LINDSAY IS HEAD OF P.R.
FOR COLANOW,
THE SODA COMPANY.
- THAT'S A PRETTY
HIGH-PRESSURE JOB.
ANY CHANCE
SHE WAS USING DRUGS?
- SHE DID
UNTIL A YEAR AGO.
LINDSAY'S
A RECOVERING ADDICT--
COCAINE.
IT FUELED HER CAREER,
BUT IT--IT NEARLY TORE US APART.
NOW FAMILY TIME'S SACRED.
SHE'D NEVER GO BACK.
- ARE YOU SURE?
SHE LOOKED PRETTY HIGH
IN THAT VIDEO.
- MY WIFE IS THE VICTIM HERE.
I DON'T KNOW
WHY SHE WAS ACTING THAT WAY.
THIS...
THIS IS THE LINDSAY
THAT I KNOW.
- DO YOU THINK
THE KIDS WILL LIKE IT?
- YEAH, IT'S AWESOME!
MOM, WAVE TO DAD.
- HI.
- WE LOVE YOU.
- WHAT KIDS WOULD LIKE IT?
- NEEDY ONES.
COLANOW DONATES
JUNGLE GYMS TO CHARITY.
- OKAY...
SECURITY AT YOUR BUILDING
CONFIRMS YOU WERE HOME
ALL NIGHT.
- I'M SORRY
I GOT ROUGH WITH YOU.
I JUST...
KIND OF LOST MY MIND
WHEN I SAW THAT VIDEO.
- ANY IDEA WHO SENT IT?
- NO.
BUT DOING P.R.
FOR A COMPANY LIKE COLANOW
MADE LINDSAY
A LOT OF ENEMIES.
- ENEMIES?
HELL, YEAH.
SODA USED TO MEAN FUN,
GOOD TIMES, AMERICA.
- BUT NOW IT MEANS
300-POUND KIDS
GETTING WINDED
WALKING UP THE SCHOOL STEPS.
- YEAH, PEOPLE SAY WE'RE
AS BAD AS CIGARETTE COMPANIES.
YOU DON'T SEE ME OUT THERE
FORCING SODA DOWN KIDS' THROATS.
- BIG TOBACCO
SAID THE SAME THING.
DIDN'T WORK OUT
TOO WELL IN COURT, DID IT?
- WELL, LINDSAY ELDING
IS WHY WE'RE NOT IN COURT.
SHE WAS SEXY, SMART.
[cell phone ringing]
SHE EVEN CHARMED
THE NEANDERTHALS
ON THE OTHER SIDE.
SHE WAS THAT GOOD.
- GOOD?
THAT'S A LAUGH.
LINDSAY ELDING
AND ALL THE SODA COMPANIES
KNOW THEIR PRODUCTS
ARE POISON.
- IS THAT WHY YOU REFUSED
THE HUNDRED GRAND
THEY OFFERED
YOUR ORGANIZATION?
- THAT WAS A BRIBE
TO SILENCE US.
WE WERE ABOUT TO PASS
A TAX ON SODA
WHEN THAT GET-OF-THE-COUCH
CAMPAIGN KILLED IT.
THAT WAS LINDSAY ELDING'S
BRAINCHILD.
- WELL, PEOPLE
SHOULD EXERCISE MORE.
- OF COURSE,
BUT SHE DISTRACTED EVERYONE
FROM THE SIMPLE FACT
THAT SODA'S BAD FOR KIDS.
ASK DAVEY GAMM'S MOTHER.
SHE'LL TELL YOU
WHAT SODA DID TO HIM.
- DAVEY WAS 12
WHEN HE TOOK HIS LIFE.
I TRIED TO MAKE HIM STOP
WITH THE COLA.
BUT HE WAS ADDICTED TO IT.
- SODA MADE HIM KILL HIMSELF?
- I COLLECTED
ALL THE RESEARCH.
HIGH-FRUCTOSE CORN SYRUP
CAN MAKE YOU OBESE,
AND OBESITY
CAN MAKE YOU DEPRESSED.
- AND DEPRESSION
CAN LEAD TO SUICIDE.
I--I'M JUST NOT SURE
THAT YOU CAN BLAME SODA
FOR WHAT HAPPENED TO YOUR SON.
- THAT'S WHAT THE JURY SAID.
BUT WE WOULD HAVE WON OUR SUIT
IF THAT WOMAN HADN'T BUILT
THE COLANOW ATHLETIC CENTER
FOR THE COMMUNITY.
- AND THAT WOMAN WAS...?
- LINDSAY ELDING--
SHE PAID FOR THE CENTER.
- SO IT DOESN'T BOTHER YOU
IF THIS PLACE WAS BUILT
AS A P.R. STUNT
TO WIN A WRONGFUL-DEATH SUIT.
- I'M A JUST A COACH GETTING
POOR KIDS OFF THE STREET.
THAT WOMAN'S A HERO.
- HERO TO SOME,
HATED BY OTHERS.
- IT'S CALLED DOING YOUR JOB.
- WELL, I'M PISSED
THE SODA TAX FAILED.
LINDSAY WAS BEHIND THAT.
- WHO NEEDS MORE TAXES?
- TAXES ALREADY GO TO SODA--
A $4 BILLION-A-YEAR SUBSIDY
FOR CORN SYRUP.
THAT'S WHY SODA'S SO CHEAP.
- A TAX ON SUGAR WATER
WOULD HELP PAY
FOR THE COST OF DIABETES
AND HEART DISEASE.
- SUGAR WATER ISN'T
THE ONLY CAUSE FOR OBESITY.
AT LEAST LINDSAY WAS HELPING
THE LITTLE GUY.
- THE LITTLE GUY,
BROUGHT TO YOU BY COLANOW--
AH, REFRESHING.
- COME ON, MONEY
PUT TO GOOD USE IS GOOD.
- IF COLANOW REALLY CARED
ABOUT POOR KIDS,
THEY WOULDN'T GO PLASTERING
THEIR LOGO ALL OVER THE PLACE.
- WELL, MAYBE LINDSAY
KNEW DEEP DOWN
THAT SHE WAS DOING
THE DEVIL'S WORK,
SO SHE WENT
BACK TO USING DRUGS.
- YEAH, EXCEPT HER TOX SCREEN
CAME BACK NEGATIVE.
- BUT IT ONLY TESTS
POPULAR DRUGS--
COCAINE, METH, "X."
PCP ISN'T
ON THE STANDARD SCREEN ANYMORE.
SO, YOU KNOW,
PEOPLE ARE JUMPING OFF BRIDGES,
THINKING THEY CAN FLY.
- OKAY, SO MAYBE SHE THOUGHT
SHE COULD BREATHE UNDERWATER.
WE PROVE IT WAS AN ACCIDENT,
CASE CLOSED.
WE GO HOME.
- BUT IT WASN'T AN ACCIDENT.
LINDSAY ELDING WAS POISONED.
- BY WHO--THE SMURFS?
- WARNER FOUND MUSHROOMS
IN LINDSAY'S GUT, RAN THE DNA,
AND I.D.'D FOUR SPECIES
FROM SOUTH AMERICA.
- THAT'S NOT SOMETHING YOU GET
FROM YOUR LOCAL GROCER.
- I HOPE NOT.
THESE CONTAIN HIGH DOSES
OF MUSCARINE--
A TOXIN WHICH MAKES YOU
HOT, SWEATY,
AND SEXUALLY AROUSED.
- "I'M HOT.
I'M WET."
EXPLAINS WHY LINDSAY
TOOK HER CLOTHES OFF.
- AND WHY SHE THREW HERSELF
AT A JERK LIKE WHIT WORLEY.
- AND WHY SHE TRIED TO COOL
HERSELF OFF IN THE FOUNTAIN,
BUT WHY DID SHE DROWN?
- MUSCARINE TOXICITY CAN LEAD
TO RESPIRATORY FAILURE.
LINDSAY TOOK HER LAST
WEAK BREATHS UNDERWATER,
BUT SHE
WOULD HAVE DIED ANYWAY.
- SO ONE OF LINDSAY'S ENEMIES
SLIPPED HER A DEADLY COCKTAIL
OF 'SHROOMS.
BUT WHEN?
- THEY WERE IN HER JEJUNUM.
DIAL BACK
THE DIGESTIVE CLOCK,
AND THAT PUTS YOU
RIGHT AROUND DINNERTIME.
- OKAY, HER CALENDAR
SAYS SHE WAS AT A FUNDRAISER
AT A PLACE
CALLED "WISHING TIME."
THEY WERE GIVING OUT
FREE JUNGLE GYMS.
- MY GRANDFATHER DONATED
THE FIRST TEETER-TOTTER
TO CENTRAL PARK IN 1907.
- MUST BE VERY GRATIFYING
TO CONTINUE HIS WORK.
- OH, INDEED.
CHILDREN
IN UNDERPRIVILEGED COMMUNITIES
CAN MAKE A WISH,
AND WE GRANT IT.
WE BUILD
ANTIGANG CLUBHOUSES...
- COLANOW ATHLETIC CENTER?
- WE COLLABORATED IN THAT.
LINDSAY--
OH, SUCH A TRAGEDY.
WHAT AN AMAZING WOMAN.
SHE HAD A GENIUS
FOR CORPORATE GIVING.
- AND IT DOESN'T BOTHER YOU
THAT THE MONEY CAME
FROM A COMPANY THAT PUSHES SODA?
- [laughing]
OH, NO, NOT A BIT.
THE BROOKS FAMILY FORTUNE
IS IN PHILANTHROPY NOW--
- EXCUSE ME.
- HMM?
- THAT'S LINDSAY WITH MUSHROOMS
ON HER SALAD.
- OH, THERE WERE
NO MUSHROOMS ON THE MENU.
EMMA?
EMMA IS MY GRANDDAUGHTER.
LINDSAY'S DEATH WAS
A TERRIBLE BLOW TO HER.
OH, THERE YOU ARE.
NOW, PULL OUT THE PHOTOS
FROM MONDAY NIGHT
FOR THE DETECTIVES.
- SURE.
THERE YOU GO.
- SO LINDSAY WAS YOUR FRIEND?
- MORE LIKE MY BIG SISTER.
WE MET IN REHAB.
- NO NEED TO AIR
OUR DIRTY LAUNDRY, EMMA.
EMMA'S PARENTS DIED
WHEN SHE WAS TEN.
I'VE DONE MY BEST SINCE,
BUT LINDSAY WAS A BREATH
OF FRESH AIR FOR HER.
- THESE ARE
DEFINITELY MUSHROOMS...
ON LINDSAY'S PLATE
AND NO ONE ELSE'S.
- SO WHO PUT 'EM THERE?
- OH, WE HAD OVER 300 GUESTS.
- WHO TOOK THESE?
- I DID, BUT, UH,
WE ALSO HAD PHOTOGRAPHERS
TAKING PHOTOS.
- WE'RE GONNA NEED COPIES
OF ALL OF THEM.
- OKAY, WHO IS THIS GUY?
DOESN'T SEEM TOO HAPPY--
THIS GENTLEMAN RIGHT HERE.
- HE WAS JUST A HOMELESS GUY.
HE CAME IN LOOKING FOR FOOD.
- NO!
NO, HE ACCOSTED LINDSAY,
YELLED AT HER.
- ABOUT WHAT?
- BOLIVIA, ODDLY ENOUGH.
HE KEPT RANTING,
"YOU CAN'T OWN THE RAIN."
[chuckling]
IT DIDN'T MAKE ANY SENSE.
- IT MAKES A LOT OF SENSE.
BOLIVIA'S GROUND ZERO
FOR THE WATER WARS--
CORPORATIONS OWNING
OUR H2O.
- WHAT'S THAT HAVE TO DO
WITH OUR VICTIM?
- IN THIS COUNTRY, COMPANIES
ARE TRYING TO BUY UP RIVERS
SO THEY CAN BOTTLE IT.
- COMPANIES LIKE COLANOW
PUT FREE WATER IN PLASTIC,
AND THEN THEY CHARGE
TWO BUCKS FOR IT.
- COLANOW WANTS
TO OWN THE RAIN.
THIS IS A WATER-RIGHTS BLOG.
HERE'S A POST RAILING
AGAINST COLANOW'S ATTEMPTS
TO BUY
THE UPSTATE AQUIFERS.
- AND LOOK
WHO OUR BLOGGER IS--
THE GUY THAT WAS KICKED OUT
OF WISHING TIME.
- "VINCENT PROCHIK,
PROFESSOR OF MYCOLOGY,
NATURAL HISTORY MUSEUM."
- "SPECIALIZING IN TOXIC
SOUTH AMERICAN MUSHROOMS."
- DR. PROCHIK!
DR. PROCHIK, SHOW YOURSELF!
- PROFESSOR PROCHIK, POLICE.
TURN AROUND, DOC.
- WHA--WHO ARE YOU?
- POLICE.
- DON'T--
- WHAT YA COOKING HERE?
- [clears throat]
MUSHROOMS.
IS THAT ILLEGAL?
- IT IS IF YOU USE IT
TO POISON SOMEONE.
- LINDSAY ELDING
WANTED TO PRIVATIZE WATER.
IT'S A RESOURCE
THAT BELONGS TO EVERYONE.
- IT DOESN'T JUSTIFY MURDER.
- OH, I AGREE.
I HATE TO SAY IT,
BUT, YAY! SHE'S DEAD!
- SHE HAD A DAUGHTER,
DR. PROCHIK,
WHO'S NOW GONNA GROW UP
WITHOUT A DAD.
- YOU MEAN A MOM?
- A MOTHER...
THAT YOU DOSED
WITH SEVERAL KINDS
OF SOUTH AMERICAN MUSHROOMS,
YOUR SPECIALTY.
WE HAVE A PHOTO
THAT PUTS YOU AT THE SCENE.
- AT NIAGARA FALLS...
RING A BELL?
- DETECTIVE, YOU OKAY?
- WE SAW YOU ON THE ROOF
WITH YOUR GUNMAN.
- WHAT'S GOING ON?
- I'M NOT THE ONE WHO STABBED
THE CAPTAIN WITH A PICKLE!
- UH-OH.
LET ME LOOK AT YOU.
I NEED TO SEE YOUR EYES.
- YOU. BACK OFF. OVER THERE.
- QUICK, CATCH HER.
SHE'S GONNA FALL.
- STAY THERE.
LIV. LIV!
GET A BUS!
WE NEED A BUS!
OFFICER DOWN!
- HEY, LIV.
HOW YOU FEELING?
- WHO PUT ROCKS IN MY HEAD?
- VINCENT PROCHIK.
HE WAS BOILING
GYROMITRA MUSHROOMS
WHEN YOU ARRESTED HIM
IN HIS LAB,
AND THE VAPORS
ARE TEMPORARILY NEUROTOXIC.
- HE CONFESS TO MURDER YET?
- HE'S TALKING
ELLIOT'S EAR OFF,
BUT HE WON'T ANSWER
ANY QUESTIONS
UNTIL HE KNOWS
THAT YOU'RE OKAY.
- [sighs]
OH!
GIVE ME A RIDE?
- THERE'S NOT A FERN
OR FIR TREE,
WARTHOG OR WOMBAT,
HIPPO OR...
OR HUMAN BEING--
NOTHING ON THIS PLANET
CAN SURVIVE WITHOUT WATER.
- HEY. GLAD TO SEE
YOU'RE OKAY, OLIVIA.
FUNGI SHOULD NEVER
HURT ANYONE.
- GOT ANYTHING USEFUL YET?
- UH, NO, BUT I'VE HAD IT
ABOUT UP TO HERE
WITH "THE SUBTLE
AND THE DISGUSTING"?
- SUBTLE AND THE GROSS,
DETECTIVE--
GROSS AS IN BIG,
LIKE GROSS PROFIT.
HAVE YOU EVER BEEN
ON A BEACH?
- WATCH THIS. HE KEEPS DOING
THESE SUDDEN MENTAL PIVOTS.
- WAVES QUIETLY LAPPING,
AND A BOOM BOX
STARTS BLARING!
MAN SO READILY WRECKS
NATURE'S PEACE,
BECAUSE NATURE IS DELICATE,
AND WE'RE SO HEAVY-HANDED.
IT'S...
IT'S DISGUSTING,
AS YOU SAY.
- OKAY, WE NEED TO TALK
ABOUT LINDSAY ELDING.
- I AM.
[scoffs]
DON'T YOU SEE?
WATER IS SUBTLE.
IT GOES, "SSS, SSS, SSS."
LINDSAY'S CORPORATIONS GO,
"MINE!
MINE! MINE! MINE!"
- AND YOU WANTED LINDSAY
TO DIE, DIE, DIE!
- I DIDN'T KILL HER.
- BUT YOU JUST TOLD US
YOUR MOTIVE.
- WHY DIDN'T PROCHIK GET SICK
FROM THE MUSHROOM VAPOR?
- HE BUILT UP A TOLERANCE
FROM YEARS OF EXPOSURE.
- WOULD THAT EXPLAIN
THE UNUSUAL SPEECH PATTERNS
AND WATER FIXATION?
- YOU THINK HIS LAWYER MIGHT GO
FOR AN INSANITY DEFENSE?
DR. PROCHIK
HOLDS A PROFESSORSHIP,
PUBLISHES PAPERS,
LEADS FORAGING TRIPS
TO BOLIVIA.
HE'S ODD, BUT SANE.
- THANKS, DOC.
- MIKKA VON.
DAVE SEAVER.
THE MUSEUM CALLED
VINCENT PROCHIK'S SISTER
AFTER HE WAS ARRESTED.
SHE RETAINED ME AS COUNSEL.
- DO I KNOW YOU?
- I'VE DEFENDED IN CHICAGO.
YOUR REPUTATION,
I'M GLAD WE NEVER FACED OFF.
- WELL, IF YOU NEED
A LITTLE PIED-A-TERRE,
I'M SELLING MY LOFT.
IT'S SUN-DRENCHED.
- I'LL KEEP THAT IN MIND.
NOW, UH, WHERE MIGHT I CHAT
WITH MY CLIENT?
- AT ARRAIGNMENT.
- REMAND
ON A CIRCUMSTANTIAL CASE
WITH NO PRIORS.
OUR NEW A.D.A. IS TESTING
HER WINGS, YOUR HONOR.
- IT'S DR. PROCHIK'S WINGS
YOU SHOULD BE WORRIED ABOUT.
HE'S A FLIGHT RISK
WITH TIES TO CRIMINAL ELEMENTS
IN BOLIVIA.
- CITIZENS FIGHTING
FOR THEIR WATER RIGHTS
ARE NOT CRIMINALS!
- VINCENT, NOT ANOTHER WORD.
- THANK YOU, MR. SEAVER.
PROCEED.
- YOUR HONOR,
MY CLIENT HAS EVERY REASON
TO REMAIN IN MANHATTAN.
HIS EXTENSIVE COLLECTION
OF FUNGI
IS BOTH PRECIOUS
AND IRREPLACEABLE.
- MUSHROOMS
AREN'T EXACTLY CHILDREN.
- MS. VON, HAVE YOU NOT HEARD
OF MY ROSES?
- ROSES?
- MY BEAUTIES TAKE FIRST PRIZE
AT THE PUTNAM COUNTY FAIR
EVERY YEAR.
I'D SOONER LEAVE MY WIFE.
DEFENDANT WILL SURRENDER
HIS PASSPORT.
BAIL'S SET AT $250,000.
[pounds gavel]
- [chuckles]
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
- I THOUGHT I'D ESCORT YOU
DOWN THE STEPS.
- I'VE BEEN THROUGH
A PRESS SCRUM.
- NOT IN NEW YORK,
YOU HAVEN'T.
- MS. VON!
- CAN YOU MAKE A COMMENT?
DO YOU HAVE A STATEMENT?
- MS. VON!
- NO COMMENT.
- MS. VON, WHAT DO YOU HAVE TO
SAY TO LINDSAY ELDING'S FAMILY?
- NO COMMENT.
- ARE THE MUSHROOMS
FROM PROCHIK'S LAB?
- WHAT IS THE DEFENDANT'S
CONNECTION TO THE VICTIM?
- WHY DON'T YOU ASK
THE DEFENDANT?
HINT--
IT'S ABOUT WATER.
- DR.--
- DR. PROCHIK!
- TELL US ABOUT WATER.
- WHAT CAN YOU TELL US
ABOUT H2O?
- IT'S THE ESSENCE OF LIFE.
WE NEED TO PROTECT IT.
- VINCENT, SHUT UP.
- NO, I'M TALKING.
ARE WE REALLY
SO PRO-BUSINESS
THAT WE WANT CORPORATIONS
OWNING LIFE ITSELF?
IN 2000, A BIG CONTRACTOR
CALLED BECHTEL
HIJACKED THE WATER
OF BOLIVIA!
WATER COMPANIES
ALL OVER THE WORLD
ARE TRYING TO BUY OUR RIVER--
- MEDIA'S TURNING DR. PROCHIK
INTO A HERO.
- OR LETTING HIM
KNOT HIS OWN NOOSE.
I CAN CONVICT HIM
IN MY SLEEP.
- YOU STILL MAY WANT THIS.
THE MUSHROOMS FROM PROCHIK'S LAB
ARE A GENETIC MATCH
TO THE ONES
THAT KILLED LINDSAY.
- SO UNLESS SOMEONE ELSE
WENT DOWN TO BOLIVIA
AND PICKED
FROM THE SAME PATCH,
MURDER WEAPON
BELONGS TO PROCHIK.
- WHICH IS WHY WE WANT
TO DISCUSS A PLEA.
- CAN YOU PLAY THAT?
- THERE'LL BE PLENTY OF TV TIME
FOR YOU IN PRISON.
- SHALL WE DISCUSS
TIME IN PRISON?
- PUT THEM OVER THERE, EMMA.
- MRS. BROOKS, EMMA.
- ALL THE PHOTOS
FROM ALL THE PHOTOGRAPHERS,
AS YOU REQUESTED.
- SOME PRINTED,
SOME ON THIS FLASH DRIVE.
- WELL, OF COURSE,
WE ALL WANT TO PUT
LINDSAY'S KILLER AWAY.
- THAT'S HIM.
THAT'S LINDSAY'S KILLER.
- NO, DON'T--DON'T--
DON'T STARE, EMMA.
IT'S RUDE.
- AND KILLING MY BEST FRIEND
WAS WHAT, A FAUX PAS?
- I KNOW IT'S ALL THE RAGE
TO EMOTE IN PUBLIC,
BUT IN MY DAY,
IT WASN'T DONE.
- YOUR DAYS
ARE LONG GONE, GRAMMY.
- I AM STILL HERE.
I AM STILL STRONG.
AND NEVER IN MY LIFE
DID I RESORT--
- RESORT TO DOING DRUGS.
I KNOW. YOU'VE SAID IT
A MILLION TIMES.
- SO LONG AS YOU WEAR
MY INTAGLIO NECKLACE,
YOU WILL MIND YOUR MANNERS.
IT'S BEEN IN MY FAMILY
FOR FIVE GENERATIONS.
- MRS. BROOKS, HAVE YOU EVER
BEEN TO A FAMILY SUPPORT GROUP
AT EMMA'S REHAB?
- WITH ALL THOSE JUNKIES?
NO. NO, NO.
THAT WAS LINDSAY'S ROLE.
- DON'T YOU DARE SAY THAT!
I SAID NO!
- VINCENT, CALM DOWN.
- COME, EMMA, BEFORE HE SEES US.
- ALL MY LIFE, PEOPLE HAVE
LOOKED AT ME LIKE I'M STRANGE,
LIKE I'M FROM ANOTHER PLANET.
- JUST SLOW DOWN.
- IF I GREW UP WITH THAT,
I'D DO DRUGS TOO.
- OLIVIA!
I WANT OLIVIA!
- DETECTIVE BENSON.
- WHAT IS GOING ON IN HERE?
- WE'RE ASSERTING
A MENTAL DEFECT BROUGHT ON
BY YEARS OF INHALING
MUSHROOM FUMES.
- I'M NOT CRAZY!
TELL THEM, OLIVIA.
- NO ONE'S SAYING YOU ARE.
EXPOSURE TO TOXINS
MADE YOU TEMPORARILY INCAPABLE
OF TELLING RIGHT FROM WRONG.
- [scoffs]
CAN I FIRE HIM?
- WHY DON'T WE TAKE A SECOND?
- YES, YOU CAN FIRE HIM.
- YOU'RE FIRED.
- VINCENT, TAKE A SEAT.
- HAS EXPOSURE TO COLOGNE
MADE YOU DEAF?
GO AWAY.
- BIG MISTAKE.
- DO--DO YOU THINK
I'M CRAZY?
- I THINK YOU NEED
AN ATTORNEY.
- I'M GONNA PLEAD GUILTY.
- YOU CAN'T CHANGE YOUR PLEA
WITHOUT A LAWYER.
BUT THIS IS A POLICE BUILDING.
I'M SURE THERE'S ONE
HERE SOMEWHERE.
- AT, UM, THIS TIME,
YOUR HONOR,
THE, UH, DEFENSE
WOULD LIKE TO PLEAD GUILTY
TO MURDER, PURSUANT--
- THERE IS NO COUNT OF MURDER
ON OUR BOOKS.
WHAT ARE YOU PLEADING?
- [chuckles awkwardly]
MURDER TWO, YOUR HONOR.
- DR. PROCHIK,
YOU'RE AWARE OF THE NATURE
OF THE CHARGES AGAINST YOU,
AND YOU'RE CHANGING YOUR PLEA
AND YOUR LAWYER
OF YOUR OWN FREE WILL?
- I AM, YOUR HONOR.
COPS CAN VOUCH FOR THAT.
- OKAY, LET'S HEAR
YOUR ALLOCUTION.
- I PUT THE MUSHROOMS
ON LINDSAY ELDING'S SALAD.
UH, I WANTED HER DEAD,
BECAUSE SHE WAS TRYING
TO CORPORATIZE WATER.
- SPECIFICS, DR. PROCHIK--
WHAT TIME? WHAT DAY?
WHAT KIND OF MUSHROOMS?
HOW MANY?
- OH, YEAH.
UH, THREE SPECIES
OF SOUTH AMERICAN MUSHROOM.
IT WAS, UH, 8:00
ON MONDAY NIGHT.
I WENT TO THAT FUNDRAISER.
UH, KIDS WERE CLIMBING
A JUNGLE GYM.
I WAITED TILL NO ONE
WAS LOOKING.
I DROPPED THOSE THREE KINDS
OF MUSHROOMS ON HER PLATE.
- VON, COME HERE.
- YOU KNOW, I DIDN'T KNOW
SHE HAD A DAUGHTER.
- CALL A RECESS.
- ARE YOU KIDDING?
- THAT'S THE ONLY REMORSE
I HAVE.
- WE MADE A MISTAKE.
- MS. VON,
IS THIS REALLY THE TIME
TO BE TALKING
WITH YOUR COPS?
- NO, YOUR HONOR,
DETECTIVE STABLER
WAS JUST SITTING DOWN.
- UH, YOUR HONOR,
IF--IF I MAY--
- DO YOU KNOW
WHAT TONIGHT IS?
- UH, SEASON OPENER
AT THE GARDEN?
- AND I HAVE COURTSIDE SEATS.
SO SIT DOWN,
OR I'LL FINE YOU
AS MUCH AS THOSE DAMN SEATS
COST ME.
- YOUR HONOR--
- DETECTIVE, I AM NOT JOKING.
- I'M NOT JOKING EITHER.
- SIT DOWN!
CONTINUE, DR. PROCHIK.
- UH, YES, I KILLED
THE COLA QUEEN,
BECAUSE SHE WAS
TRYING TO PLAY GOD.
WHO SHALL LIVE
AND WHO SHALL DIE?
- HOT!
- OUR VERY SURVIVAL
DEPENDS ON FRESH WATER!
- HOT.
BOY, IS IT HOT IN HERE.
- DETECTIVE STABLER!
- ISN'T IT HOT IN HERE?
I DIDN'T ORDER THAT PIZZA.
I DON'T EVEN LIKE ANCHOVIES.
ALL I WANT TO DO
IS GET TO THE GARDEN--
- THAT'S IT.
I FIND YOU IN CONTEMPT!
- YOUR HONOR,
DETECTIVE STABLER...
- OFFICERS, RESTRAIN THIS MAN.
- WAS EXPOSED
TO NEUROTOXIC MUSHROOMS
IN THE LINE OF DUTY--
HE'S NOT IN COMPOS MENTIS.
- YOUR HONOR,
AL AND MIKE AND TODD,
WE'RE GONNA GO WATER-SKIING
AT THE GARDEN.
- CALL AN AMBULANCE.
- I DIDN'T ORDER THAT PIZZA.
YOUR HONOR,
I'M NOT EVEN A FAN OF ANCHOVIES.
BOY, IS IT HOT IN HERE!
- DOC SAYS NOTHING'S WRONG
WITH YOU.
- AH, YEAH, I GUESS IT PASSED.
LOOK, I'M SORRY,
BUT I DID TELL YOU
THAT I NEEDED A RECESS.
YOU REALLY GAVE ME NO CHOICE.
- I SHOULD GIVE YOU
A BEATDOWN.
- PROCHIK SAID
HE DOSED LINDSAY
WITH THREE
DIFFERENT MUSHROOMS.
THERE WERE FOUR.
NOW, A MAN LIKE HIM
DOESN'T FORGET
SOMETHING LIKE THAT.
- YOU ARE HIGH.
- OKAY, YOU WANT TO CONVICT
AN INNOCENT MAN
YOUR FIRST CASE
OUT OF THE GATE?
- I WANT MY FIRST CASE
NOT TO MAKE ME LOOK
LIKE A TOTAL FLAKE.
- [sighs]
- YOU REALLY THINK
IT WASN'T PROCHIK?
- LOOK, I DON'T KNOW,
BUT I'D LIKE A LITTLE MORE TIME
TO FIGURE OUT WHAT THE HELL'S
GOING ON AROUND HERE.
- YOU HAVE UNTIL 9:00
TOMORROW MORNING
TO CONVINCE ME SOMEONE ELSE
KILLED LINDSAY ELDING.
- I GOT KIDS WITH FACE PAINT
AND ADULTS WITH COCKTAILS.
- ALL I GOT IS A HEADACHE.
- NO ONE DROPPING
TOXIC 'SHROOMS
IN THE VICTIM'S SALAD.
- YOU CAN THANK STABLER
FOR OUR ALL-NIGHTER.
WHAT?
I'M HERE, AREN'T I?
YOU KNOW, TEAM PLAYER.
- YEAH. OKAY, SO WE GOT
A TIME-STAMPED PHOTO.
7:51--THERE'S NOTHING
ON LINDSAY'S SALAD.
BY 8:02...
'SHROOMS HAVE BEEN DROPPED.
- SO WHO CAME NEAR HER TABLE
IN THOSE 11 MINUTES?
- THESE PEOPLE--
FRANCINE BROOKS AND HER
GRANDDAUGHTER EMMA BROOKS.
- WHO'S HE?
- STUFFED SHIRT--
I MEAN, LINDSAY'S BOSS.
- AND THIS IS PHIL MCPEAL
FROM THE ATHLETIC CENTER.
THE REST OF THESE PEOPLE
HAVE YET TO BE I.D.'D.
- AND GUESS WHO WASN'T ANYWHERE
NEAR LINDSAY'S TABLE.
- PROFESSOR PROCHIK.
- WHAT'S SHE DOING?
- IS SHE CALLING THE D.A.
TO ASK FOR A DELAY?
- THAT,
OR SHE'S ORDERING CHINESE.
- OKAY, WHO HERE HAS MOTIVE?
WAS SHE HAVING AN AFFAIR
WITH THE COACH OR HER BOSS?
- OR MAYBE ONE
OF THESE OTHER PEOPLE
HATED LINDSAY
FOR SOME OTHER REASON.
- FOLKS, I GOT TO GET
MY BEAUTY REST.
- YOU'RE LEAVING?
- THIS IS GONNA TAKE DAYS,
NOT HOURS.
AND I'M NOT GONNA DELAY
A SOLID CASE
'CAUSE PROCHIK
MISSED A MUSHROOM.
NO WONDER YOU GUYS
GO THROUGH A.D.A.s SO FAST.
- YEAH, SO SCREW JUSTICE.
ALL THAT MATTERS
IS YOUR CONVICTION RATE?
- [chuckles]
LET'S BE CLEAR HOW THIS WORKS.
- OH, OKAY.
- YOU GUYS ARE THE POTS
AND PANS.
I'M THE CHEF.
- TEAM PLAYER, HUH?
- SEE YOU IN COURT.
- HAS ANYONE SEEN
OUR DEFENSE ATTORNEY?
FEELING BETTER, DETECTIVE?
- UH, YES.
THANK YOU, YOUR HONOR.
GO, KNICKS.
- SEEMS DEFENSE COUNSEL
HAS GONE ON VACATION.
FORGOT TO INFORM,
SENDS APOLOGIES, ET CETERA.
GET HIM ON THE PHONE.
LET'S SEE IF HE CAN SQUIRM
OUT OF A CONTEMPT CITATION.
[pounds gavel]
- YOU GOT PROCHIK
THE WORST POSSIBLE LAWYER?
- OR THE BEST.
ONE THAT'S NOT HERE
GIVES US DAYS, NOT HOURS.
- SO THAT WAS THE CALL
YOU MADE LAST NIGHT, HUH?
WHAT'D YOU DO,
SEND HIM ON VACATION
TO A SUN-DRENCHED LOFT
IN CHICAGO?
- OH, WELL, KID LOOKED LIKE
HE COULD USE SOME R&R.
I THINK WE'RE GONNA MAKE
A GREAT TEAM.
- ME TOO. CAP!
HOW'S THE OLD PLACE?
- IT'S, UH--
IT'S ALL GETTING SQUARED AWAY.
- CAPTAIN CRAGEN, I'VE BEEN
LOOKING FORWARD TO MEETING YOU.
MIKKA VON, YOUR NEW A.D.A.
- YEAH, WELL,
NICE KNOWING YOU.
YOUR BOSS CALLED.
HE'S TIED UP.
ASKED ME TO DELIVER
A MESSAGE--
PACK YOUR BAGS,
GO BACK TO CHICAGO.
- [scoffs]
I'M BEING FIRED BY PROXY?
- WHAT'S GOING ON?
- APPARENTLY, YOU SENT
A DEFENSE ATTORNEY
ON VACATION SUB ROSA.
D.A. DOESN'T LIKE
DIRTY TRICKS.
- UNLESS HE'S THE ONE
DOING THEM.
- I'M SORRY.
- WELL...
I GUESS I GOT TO GO TAKE MY LOFT
OFF THE MARKET.
- BEEN NICE WORKING WITH YOU.
- BACK AT YA.
[chuckles softly]
- IS SHE ONE OF THE GOOD ONES?
- YEAH.
- DID THE CAPTAIN SAY
WHO'S REPLACING MIKKA?
- ONLY THAT THEY'RE POACHING
SOME HOTSHOT OUT OF BROOKLYN.
DR. PROCHIK.
- [sighs]
MY LAWYER SAID I DIDN'T HAVE
TO GO TO COURT TODAY.
- AND YOU NEVER
WILL HAVE TO AGAIN,
BECAUSE YOU DIDN'T DO IT,
DID YOU?
- NOW, WHY WOULD YOU CONFESS
TO A MURDER YOU DIDN'T COMMIT?
- FOR THE CAUSE.
YOU SAW ME ON TV.
FOLKS WERE FINALLY
STARTING TO PAY ATTENTION.
- SO YOU WERE WILLING
TO GO TO PRISON FOR A SOAPBOX.
- SOME THINGS IN LIFE
ARE DEAR, OLIVIA.
- WHAT WE WANT TO KNOW
IS WHO HAD ACCESS TO YOUR LAB
TO STEAL THOSE MUSHROOMS?
- RESEARCHERS
COME THROUGH HERE,
UH, ADMINISTRATORS,
THE V.I.P. MUSEUM TOUR.
- ANY OF THESE PEOPLE?
- NO.
NO.
N-NO.
NONE OF THEM.
SORRY.
NOW, WOULD YOU JUST LEAVE?
- YOU SAW THAT, RIGHT?
- STOPPED ON THE PHOTO
OF EMMA BROOKS.
- BUT HE DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING.
- HE'S PROTECTING HER.
- THE COPS SHOWED ME
YOUR PHOTO.
- GET OUT OF HERE, VINNY!
- BUT I DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING.
- ARE YOU CRAZY, COMING HERE?
- HEY.
YOU SAID
YOU DIDN'T KNOW HER.
- AND YOU TOLD US
HE WAS JUST A HOMELESS GUY.
NOW HE'S "VINNY"?
- EMMA, YOU KNOW THIS MAN?
- YEAH, THEY'RE ACCOMPLICES.
- NO.
- THE PROFESSOR HERE
PROVIDED THE MUSHROOMS,
AND EMMA TOSSED THEM
IN LINDSAY'S SALAD.
- EMMA...
YOU MURDERED HER?
- NO! NO.
IT WAS ALL ME.
I DID IT MYSELF.
- GRAMMY...
I DIDN'T KILL ANYONE!
- THAT'S RIGHT!
I MURDERED LINDSAY ELDING!
I GAVE HER THOSE MUSHROOMS!
- ABOUT THOSE MUSHROOMS,
WHICH TOXINS DID YOU PICK
TO KILL LINDSAY?
NOW, BEFORE YOU ANSWER,
YOU SHOULD KNOW
THAT I HAVE THE AUTOPSY REPORT
RIGHT HERE.
- IBOTENIC ACID--
FAST-ACTING AND DEADLY.
- WELL, YOU CERTAINLY KNOW
YOUR MUSHROOMS, PROFESSOR.
SO IF YOU DID IT,
OR IF YOU CONSPIRED WITH EMMA,
YOU WOULD KNOW
WHICH ONES LINDSAY TOOK.
- MUSCARINE.
IT WAS MU--
IT WAS MUSCARINE.
RIGHT?
- IS THAT YOUR FINAL ANSWER?
SO EMMA STOLE THE MUSHROOMS
FROM YOUR LAB.
- STOLE THEM?
I--I NEVER WENT TO HIS LAB.
- MM-HMM. WELL, C.S.U.
SEARCHED YOUR APARTMENT
AND FOUND THE EXACT SAME TYPE
OF MUSHROOMS
THAT WERE USED TO KILL
LINDSAY ELDING.
SO HOW DID YOU
AND THE PROFESSOR MEET?
- EMMA CAME
TO OUR WATER-RIGHTS GROUP...
APRIL 7TH--
SUCH FIRE IN HER EYES
FOR THE PLANET.
SHE TOLD US ABOUT HER GRANDMA'S
LAND DEAL IN THE CATSKILLS.
- WHAT LAND DEAL?
- WITH LINDSAY ELDING.
THAT WOMAN WAS QUIETLY BUYING
UPSTATE LAND
AND SELLING THE WATER RIGHTS
TO COLANOW.
- LINDSAY COZIED UP TO GRANNY
AND GOT HER TO SELL THE ESTATE.
LET ME GUESS--GRANNY'S LAND
HAS LOTS OF WATER ON IT.
- COLANOW
TAPS THAT AQUIFER...
HALF OF NEW YORK CITY
DRIES UP.
- I ASKED GRAMMY NOT
TO SELL THAT LAND TO LINDSAY...
BEGGED HER.
- BUT SHE WOULDN'T LISTEN
TO YOU.
BECAUSE IN GRAMMY'S EYES...
HOW DID SHE PUT IT?
[imitating Mrs. Brooks]
LINDSAY'S AN AMAZING WOMAN.
BUT YOU...
- I'M JUST A REHAB SCREWUP.
- SHE'S NOT A SCREWUP.
SHE'S A SUBTLE PERSON
IN A LOUD WORLD.
- YOU'RE IN LOVE WITH HER.
THAT'S WHY
YOU PLEADED GUILTY.
- [chuckles softly]
OH, I LIKE
THE SOAPBOX TOO, BUT...
YES.
EMMA AND I ARE IN LOVE.
- LOVE?
IN MY FAMILY,
LOVE IS ABOUT BEING
AT THE RIGHT EVENT
IN THE RIGHT DRESS,
GOSSIPING
ABOUT SOCIAL TWADDLE.
I'VE--
I'VE NEVER UNDERSTOOD IT.
- BUT LINDSAY DID.
SHE'S GRANDMA'S DREAM GIRL...
SO YOU KILLED HER.
- I DIDN'T KILL HER.
- WELL, I'LL BET YOU IF LINDSAY
WERE SITTING IN THAT CHAIR,
FRANCINE BROOKS WOULD HAVE RACED
RIGHT DOWN HERE...
TO MAKE SURE SHE'S OKAY,
DON'T YOU THINK?
I'LL TELL YOU WHAT...
WHY DON'T WE SEE ABOUT THAT?
- NOPE.
NO GRANNY.
AND SHE REALLY DOESN'T GIVE
A DAMN ABOUT YOU,
DOES SHE?
- SHE LOVES ME.
- LIKE YOU LOVE VINNY?
YOU MEET SOME ODDBALL GUY--
- HE'S NOT ODD.
HE'S HIS OWN PERSON.
- AFTER A FEW KISSES, HE TEACHES
YOU ALL YOU NEED TO KNOW
ABOUT DEADLY MUSHROOMS.
WHEN HE'S NOT LOOKING,
YOU STUFF THEM INTO YOUR PURSE.
KIND OF LIKE THAT,
PROFESSOR?
- HE'S OUT THERE?
- JUST TELLING US THE TRUTH
BEHIND YOUR LIES.
- SHE CAN'T SEE ME?
- OR HEAR YOU.
- VINNY, I'M SORRY.
- YOU'RE SORRY?
YOU SAW HIM UNDER ARREST
AND SAID NOTHING.
- NO.
VINNY, I LOVE YOU.
- MM-HMM.
REALLY?
SO MUCH THAT YOU WANTED HIM
TO DO YOUR PRISON TIME FOR YOU.
- I CAN'T--I CAN'T. I--
IT'S JUST I CAN'T--
- YOU CAN'T?
YOU CAN'T CONFESS TO MURDERING
THE MOTHER OF A NINE-YEAR-OLD?
- LET ME IN THERE.
- NOT A CHANCE.
- HOW MUCH DO YOU THINK HER
LITTLE GIRL IS CRYING RIGHT NOW?
- [crying]
PLEASE JUST LEAVE ME ALONE.
- NO, YOU LOVE VINNY.
NOW'S YOUR TIME TO TELL HIM
HOW MUCH YOU LOVE HIM.
TO HIS FACE.
HMM?
- VINNY...
I'M SORRY
I DIDN'T SAY ANYTHING.
- [voice breaking]
I KNOW, EMMA. I KNOW.
- WHAT'D YOU WANT
TO SAY TO HIM?
- THAT I KILLED
THAT TWO-FACED BITCH.
YOU--YOU THINK LINDSAY
GAVE A RAT'S ASS ABOUT ME?
SHE WALKED RIGHT OVER ME
TO GET TO GRAMMY.
AS SOON AS SHE DIES,
I'M GARBAGE,
AS FAR AS GRAM'S CONCERNED.
NOT A--NOT A KIND WORD,
NOT AN OUNCE OF LOVE.
WHO AM I KIDDING?
THERE NEVER WAS ANY.
- IT WASN'T ABOUT THE WATER.
IT WAS ABOUT REVENGE.
- THE ONLY WATER I SEE
IS TEARS.
SAY GOOD-BYE.
- EMMA!
- HEY!
- LET ME TALK TO HER!
LET ME IN!
I NEED TO SEE HER!
- EMMA, NO.
SHE'S GOT THE MUSHROOMS.
- EMMA!
- [grunting with mouth full]
- EMMA, NO!
EMMA...
- I'LL CALL A BUS.
- EMMA, GET 'EM
OUT OF YOUR MOUTH!
EMMA, GET 'EM OUT OF YOUR MOUTH.
- [gasping]
TELL GRANDMA SHE'S RID
OF THE PROBLEM CHILD.
[gasping]
- THE DOCTORS
PUMPED YOUR STOMACH.
YOU'RE GONNA BE FINE.
WELL, LOOK WHO'S HERE.
- GRAMMY.
YOU CAME?
- OF COURSE.
- [sniffles]
I KNOW I SCREWED UP.
I JUST--I WANTED--
- YOU WILL TAKE
YOUR HAND OFF ME.
- WHAT?
BUT--BUT, GRAM--
- YOU ARE NOT MY GRANDCHILD.
I CAME
ONLY FOR MY INTAGLIO.
- YOU'RE REALLY
GONNA TAKE IT?
SHE COULD USE IT TO PAY
FOR A DEFENSE ATTORNEY.
- I WOULD NEVER DO THAT.
- JUST LIKE YOU WOULD NEVER
WRECK MY MERCEDES?
OR LOSE YOUR VIRGINITY
AT 15?
OR STUFF THAT GARBAGE
UP YOUR NOSE.
- [crying]
I'M SORRY.
- I'M GIVING THIS
TO LINDSAY'S DAUGHTER.
YOU WILL INHERIT NOTHING.
- YOU THINK
THAT'S WHAT I WANTED--
YOUR MONEY?
- I DON'T FRANKLY CARE.
- I JUST WANTED A MOM.
- YES, WELL...
[sighs]
SHE DIED.
- [sobbing]
- PROFESSOR...
DIDN'T EXPECT
TO SEE YOU HERE.
- I'M HERE FOR EMMA.
- AFTER SHE STOOD BY
AND LET YOU TAKE THE FALL?
- NOBODY'S PERFECT.
Captioning by Brian
at CaptionMax
www.captionmax.com